##[100 Days to Offload: Progress](/post/7_100_days_offload_progress)
###### July 7, 2020

With the pace I am going right now, I won't be able to hit the goal of hitting a
100 blog posts within the calendar year. I wanted to take the time to write
about how this is completely okay and to reflect on some unhealthy relationships
that I have with setting goals.

The whole point of this challenge is to get me to write more often and to not be
afraid of sharing what I write with others. Already, I have written more in
about three weeks than I have in over a year. This whole ordeal is already
accomplishing what I set out to do, even if I fall short of the 100 posts in a
calendar year.

Thinking about this today had me reflecting on my relationship with setting
goals and how I go about reaching them. I, like many others I'm sure, have a lot
of trouble setting a goal and stick to reaching it. There are moments where I
have a sudden inspiration to "get my life together", so I sit down and write
down a list of things that I want to accomplish. Maybe I will write down
something like, "I want to be fit" or "To become a better software developer",
etc. After realizing that these are too loosely defined to be attainable, I may
narrow it down to something much more specific like "I want to run a sub 7
minute mile" or "I want to practice writing code 30 minutes a day". These last
two goals are a step in the right direction because they have a clear and
measurable goal that you can reach for.

My problem is that I can never stick with goals long term. I have had stretches
of success with goals similar to the ones above. I would develop some of these
habits and manage to keep them for a few weeks, sometimes a few months.
Eventually though, I would drop the ball and revert back to my old habits. Why
is this?

I think that my biggest problem is that I tend to treat goals as a destination.
