For much of my life, I have had a very unhealthy relationship with video games.
I was and still am a huge gamer. The first game I remember playing was Pokemon
Crystal for the Gameboy Color. I was hooked. I played game for countless hours
in my childhood and into my adult life. 

I don't think that playing video games is a bad thing. In fact, there has been
plenty of research talking about a lot of the benefits that kids get from
playing games. I think I have a lot to thank video games for in my life. 

It is no secret though that gaming can also take away a lot from your life. I
was one of those people that really let gaming control me in a sense. I was a
video game addict in undergrad. I really let it affect my studies. So much so
that I fell into a state of depression and failed a handful of classes one
semester. I dropped out. I couldn't handle it. I couldn't bring myself to work
on difficult tasks. It was too hard to get started. Much more difficult than
booting up my computer to play games for hours straight. I did not have a handle
on my gaming habits and I let it control me. I wouldn't hang out with friends
because I would rather play. I would skip class to play League of Legends with
my friends from back home. I would stay up until 4 in the morning, not able to
pull myself from my computer. 

It was rough. I didn't take care of myself. I would eat like shit. I wasn't
active. Those were some really rough times in my undergrad. Eventually, I
dropped out because I realized that I was just going to waste all of my money if
I was going to just fail classes. So, instead, I drove trucks for my dad for
about 8 months. I was scared to take time off school because once you quit it is
easy to never go back.. Fortunately, I found myself going back after just taking
a semester off. 

I was not cured by any means. I still found myself being super lazy. I stopped
skipping classes as often and I would start working on my homework early. Gaming
was still a big part of my life, sometimes too big. But I had a much better
handle on it then when I was earlier in my undergrade.

As I have gotten older, I find myself playing a lot less. There are still some
days where I will sit down and put multiple hours straight into gaming instead
of working on things that I need to get done. These days are much fewer and
farther between thankfully. 
