##[100 Days of Code - Update](/post/11_10_19_end_100_days)
###### November 10, 2019

#### I Didn't Complete the 100 Days of Code

It's been a couple of months since I quit the 100 days of code challenge. I made
it to 48 days, just shy of the half-way mark. Even though I did not follow
through with the challenge, there are a few silver linings. During this attempt,
I really wanted to limit how often I jumped from project to project. In my
previous attempts, I would start on a new project every day or every other day.
Doing this for the course of the challenge would not help me grow as a developer
and honestly is a waste of time. I was not learning anything new. As soon as a
project would get a little difficult, I would start a new one. This ensured that
I would only work on shallow problems, which is not how you grow in a skill set.

I still jumped around a little bit. However, I did not start new projects nearly
as much as I had with past attempts. This time, I flipped between a couple of
different projects that interested me that I have already started. This gave me
the novelty feeling that I wanted without missing the harder problems that came
up in a project.

If I attempt this challenge again in the future, there are a couple of things
that I think I would do a little different to make it easier to see this to the
end. Next time, I should work on a tool that would make my own
life easier. Software is all about empowering users. I should look for the
things in my life that I can automate with software. It is a little difficult to
just work on software if it doesn't really have a purpose. A lot of the projects
that I was working on were things that I would never really use. They were more
of a portfolio piece than a tool. The problem with this is that I find it
difficult to identify the needs that I have as a user. 

All in all, I'm glad I attempted it again. It is quite difficult to dedicate
this much time with all of the other responsibilities going on. It takes a lot
of grit to finish this. Props to everyone that has.
