##[100 Days of Code](/post/7_20_19_100_days)
###### July 20, 2019

#### What is the 100 Days of Code?

The 100 days of code challenge is a public commitment to write code 1 hour a
day for 100 days straight.
There are a couple of parts to this challenge.
The code being worked on should be published somewhere where people can find it,
like in a public GitHub repo.
Anyone should be able to see what you are working on.
Someone doing the challenge must also talk about their progress on a daily
basis.
A lot of people end up doing this on Twitter (you can check out the
[#100DaysofCode](https://twitter.com/hashtag/100DaysOfCode?src=hashtag_click) hashtag to see it in action).
This creates a sense of accountability and community that can help create a
drive to stick with the challenge.

#### Why the Challenge?

There are a lot of professionals in the field that I look up to.
A lot of these people are brilliant programmers and are able to solve very
complex problems.
When I look at some of the stuff these guys and gals are working on, it almost
lights a fire in me.
It creates a desire in me to become a more capable developer.

The thing is though, I am not going to wake up one day and suddenly know how to
write a complier that can bootstrap itself or design a brilliant front end for a
web app.
These things take practice and do not happen to a person by mere chance.
It takes time to improve at a skill and becoming a better programmer is no
different.
So, to help me accomplish my goal of becoming a stronger and more well-rounded
developer, I am undertaking the 100 days of code challenge. 
I have attempted the challenge twice before.
The first time, I made it to around day 75 and the second about day 30.
I am determined to see it through this third time.
There are a few things that I am going to do differently to help me complete it
this time.

One of the first projects I started on (I'm already on Day 6 of the challenge)
is writing a git hook that will send an email right before a push.
During this challenge, I am both tweeting my progress and updating a [repo](https://github.com/thesudorm/100_days) with my progress.
The idea is that I can send an email to a handful of people automatically as
soon as I update the repo.
This can help me stay accountable on top of posting daily on social media.
I am also going to keep some sort of schedule as well.
It is much easier to stick to a habit if you develop a rhythm or routine.

Cheers to everyone else that decided to take this on.
Good luck to you all and I hope that you learn a lot on your journey!
